[Music]
hi everybody and welcome to another
episode of on air and today i'm really
excited to be joined by the fantastic
sand dunny um sam is the co-owner at
webchoice um and he's also the host of
the business growth show a podcast that
i've been lucky enough to be a guest on
but also enjoyed listening to for for a
long time so i've got to be on my best
behavior today because i've got the man
of podcast in front of me firstly sam
thank you for joining us welcome to the
show hey owen thanks so much for having
me on man really appreciate and looking
forward to having a chat today yeah
really looking forward to it and we're
going to get stuck into a topic which is
naturally yours your sweet spot your
absolute area of expertise we're talking
about seo we're talking about
simplifying it for people who maybe
aren't marketeers or seo experts so if
you're in a sales role or a demand role
or a revenue roll and you want to
understand how seo can support your
growth journey um a great way to turn it
into layman's terms for people that
maybe aren't working in that sector
we're also going to look at how it can
work as a great um lead gen tool and and
um you know linking that back to to the
performance of your website and all
those sorts of things but ultimately
like always we're talking about how do
you grow your revenue and how does seo
contribute to that before we before we
get into that exciting topic let's do
two minutes on sam and webchoice tell us
who salmon and who are web choice
yeah i give you the shortened version so
webchoiceuk.com we basically help
businesses increase their leads and
their sales revenue through custom web
design and seo strategies so we're
webchoiceuk.com and otherwise i'll run a
little podcast called business growth
show
which
each week we interview business leaders
we provide actionable tips across
marketing to increase your sales
increase your bottom line um no fluff
apart from that i tend to post regularly
on linkedin providing actual marketing
tips and my passion really is
digital so helping businesses with their
websites with their organic seo um to
hook idle clients
take them from just looking to converted
so straight to your sales team or paid
customers and that tends to be what
we're about
love it good stuff so if you need a
website if you need seo sam's the man to
talk to and at the end of this we'll
give you some guidance in terms of how
you can get in touch with with sam or
with web choice so let's get stuck in
because on the show that's what we do we
get straight into the the the detail
i'm going to ask you a big question
first
seo why do we need to do seo
sure
and the answer might be not everyone
does
because if you've got leads and inbound
sales coming at your earls then
maybe you're okay but not many
businesses have that problem yeah so
seo search engine optimization it is it
has many many advantages um
and
one of the
kind of simple analogies i like to use
often when i'm describing it is it's
very much like
a mortgage
so it's it's not a quick thing it's a
long-term investment
whereas with a mortgage of course you're
working towards eventually owning a
property with seo you're working to
eventually own the top spot on google so
when someone searches for
a service that you provide or a product
that's related to what you do you want
to come up top so then they're going to
click through your website and then
hopefully be converted into an inbound
lead opportunity or sale um
why is seo important well it's going to
get you in front of ideal customers most
people start there buying experience
with a search engine typically google so
the chances are
if you're not on page one then you're
not you're going to be missing out on a
big chunk of opportunities to get in
front of those prospects that are
searching for potentially what you can
help them with
all right so let's let's put myself i'm
in buyer mode now and i'm thinking about
seo let's let's see how good you're
pitching lj i'm not going to put you in
the front like that but let's
think about expectations because i think
one of the things that we we probably
work with similar similar sectors with
similar problems expectations is a big
thing to manage yeah how long can seo
take you know we talk about a mortgage
maybe 25 years 30 years might be a bit
longer
what should be a realistic expectation
from getting from a let's say a business
that's done moderate seo very little um
effort or focus on it's through to
getting to genuinely owning that top
spot
as with many things it depends how
competitive your industry is
so
i suppose going from one end of the
spectrum to the other if you're a local
business
and let's say you only operate in a
certain town or city and perhaps your
product is quite niche you haven't got
many competitors in your local area and
it could be quite quick it could
literally be a case of you set up your
website or maybe you've got a website
already you understand the search terms
that you want to be ranking for so you
understand the products or services that
are important you actually want to
generate business for from google and
you make some updates to your content
you make some updates to the technical
side of your site which we can get into
a bit later and then you perhaps do some
some more work off of your site which
again we can chat about and it might
only take a couple months if the
competition's not that tight and you're
operating quite a small niche in area it
could be fast whereas if you're a
national brand and or perhaps even
international and you work with
customers literally maybe all over the
uk maybe do us maybe do further afield
then the chances are there's gonna be a
lot more competition a lot more
competitors fighting for the team same
spot top spots on google perhaps they're
doing a ton of content they're putting
out loads of blogs videos infographics
all this good stuff building links every
day
then you could be talking six months 12
months 18 months depending on how tight
that competition is so it's quite a
difference depending on what you're
going after and let's say we're on that
long-term one how do you measure success
during the process so success at the end
is i'm a top spot and then no doubt you
have to keep on top spot which you know
get there and give up um yeah in that
journey can you measure the progress as
you're going
certainly can so
one of the most important things you
want to do is set up an analytics on
your website so you want to get stuck
into tools like first and foremost
something like google analytics
so whereby you can understand the
traffic that's coming to your site the
traffic sources so whether that's
organic which is going to be seo whether
that's referrals some other sites
whether that's paid traffic from
different ads or sponsored listings etc
and you're also going to most
importantly which many business owners
forget to do is track your conversions
so right now if you're not doing this
install analytics and then set up
conversion tracking so every time
someone goes onto your website they fill
out an inquiry form you've got a thank
you page which can be tracked so then
you can attribute that lead and that
conversion every time someone clicks a
phone number on your website every time
someone clicks an email so all those
points or if someone makes a purchase of
your e-commerce all those points are
tracked so that way you've got a
foundation so you literally know what's
going on with your website and then
furthermore once you're if you're doing
seo yourself or if you've got an seo
company or freelancer then things that
you can track are the rankings so that's
one of the main things you want to want
to check so your main search terms that
you actually want to get leads or sales
for
you can measure those using tools like
semrush ahrefs and there's a bunch of
others or uber suggests and what you can
do is each month it might be that when
you first start an seo campaign these
search terms might not even be ranked
and then it might be month one they go
from unranked to perhaps position 60
perhaps on page six or seven then the
next month they go up and the next month
they go up so you can track the rankings
you can track your website traffic with
analytics and you can track those
conversions or if you're e-commerce you
can track that into attribute
attributable revenue
brilliant and when you talk about
conversions let's layman terms that what
does that actually mean that yeah people
doing a certain activity on your site
ultimately yeah most businesses want
their website to act as a tool to grow
their business grow their revenue so a
conversion is any time a customer takes
an action you want them to take on your
website that could be filling out a lead
inquiry form a contact form giving you a
call giving a direct email going on a
chat bot
downloading an ebook or some kind of
lead magnet or making some kind of
purchase so that's a conversion
brilliant fantastic
now
seo to a degree is considered by a lot
of people as a bit of a dark art you
know not quite sure what actually seo
means what happens what's part of the
process so can we maybe just spend a few
minutes stripping it down so
i'm going to do run an seo program for
um for a b2b organization what do you as
an seo agency or an expert actually do
as part of that process what are the
things that you look at what are the
pillars that we're able to lean on to to
move the rankings up
yeah yeah yeah yeah so this is something
i ramble on a bit about on linkedin seo
does frustrate me a bit because
not all but just like any industry
there's there's a few cowboys knocking
about which i'm sure is the same for
your space owen and i'm sure many people
tuning in are thinking yeah we've got a
few of those knocking about
so what does annoy me is when companies
try to bambooze you with jargon so
they're talking about seo and they're
they're saying like yeah you've gotta
monetize your keywords you've gotta do
all this research you've gotta make sure
your meta titles your data your
technical things are all sound um which
is fine if you're talking to kind of a
marketing manager or someone that does
understand seo and
but if you're just confusing people into
kind of making them think that you can
help then it's it's never a great start
so there are some whilst seo can be
simplified
it does of course take take take a bit
of expertise to get it right as with
many things so
there's a few foundations to seo and
what you want to think about is two main
pillars everything on your website so
on-site seo and everything off your
website everything you do off your
website called office seo those are the
two main things but
i'll break down the process in a couple
minutes and then feel free to jump in if
you want to kind of pause me at any time
so initially what you want to do is you
want to think about if we're going to do
an seo campaign if we want to get our
website organically up to page one and
google
we initially need to do our keyword
research
what does that mean well we need to
think about if we're a b2b company let's
say we're a sas company we offer some
kind of software as a service product
what do we want to get leads for what do
we want to get demo requests or inquiry
fields for what other products that we
actually want to be searched for if we
were providing let's say some kind of
accounting system then we might want to
be found for best accountant software um
or how to find accountant software um
or
let's say xero versus quickbooks if we
were then so
the good thing about this keyword
research is you can do different levels
of the buyer journey different levels of
the sales funnel so you can with your
seo you can capture people that are
further along or shorter along the
buying process so you can do top of
funnel searches which might be how
things to think about or things to
consider before investing in accounting
software um you could do middle of the
funnel uh searches which might be again
quickbooks versus zero so somebody's
ready to compare or bottom of the funnel
somebody's probably ready to buy or
ready to request a demo which might be
best accounting software so think about
the search terms you want to rank for
you can use tools like semrush google
keyword planner ahrefs they're going to
give you data on your competitors how
many searches these search terms get per
month and a bit of info around those
once you have agreed on let's say you've
got 20 or so search terms yourself your
team or your company that you're working
with want to rank for then you need to
do two things to your website
if you've got a website which you need
by this point you need to
be pointless talking talking about seo
if you haven't got a website
exactly so you need to do a technical
order of the site i need to do a content
order at the website
so technical audit typically looks at
things like page speed so google
recently um launched an update called
cool web vitals and a big part of that
is making sure your website is super
quick um in terms of loading speed
because if your website's slow people
will just get frustrated they'll head to
a competitor can i jump in on that bit
what makes a website slow what are the
things that might slow a website down
yeah a ton of things so it could be
you've got too many videos you've got
large-scale images that slow it down
maybe you've got kind of a big banner
area that's going to go a sliding scroll
style banner that just moves really slow
maybe you're just trying to pack too
much into your homepage um or maybe
you've got a heavy outdated piece of
software maybe you build an old version
of wordpress that needs to be updated or
your your content management system your
web platform is just behind the times
there's a number of things that um that
can slow down websites it's interesting
i'm gonna i'm gonna touch on this i know
you've got more and don't forget where
we're going on this yeah
but
we've had this debate internally in the
past where we used to have a what i
thought was a really cool video on our
website but it was it was you know it
was a it was a very good quality video
and it was clearly slowing the website
down um
and load speed became more important
then we had this internal debate around
do we compress the video down and then
you lose a little bit of quality so yeah
it goes it goes it doesn't look as um as
high definition so to speak do we and we
we get it halfway there did we lose the
video and just go image led which maybe
has a lesser impact but then the
performance of the website so you get
more people there yeah and i feel like
there always has to be a compromise is
that true is there a compromise all the
time or is there a way of nailing it
where you can have yeah really high
definition quality video and get the
speed at the same time
yeah usually it's about not always but
sometimes it's about getting the best of
both worlds so if you haven't yet i'd
advise go on a tool called page speed
insights
google page speed insights google that
now you can put in your website link
click go and then it'll give you your
page score for mobile and desktop
straight away
nice and it gives you tips so if it's if
it is slow um like let's say because it
gives you a score out of 100 for mobile
and desktop if it is slow it gives you
actual tips like you need to reduce this
or you need to change this but to go to
your point with video what we've done
for a few of our clients is you're quite
well if you quite right if you start
embedding a bunch of youtube or vimeo
videos it's going to slow down so
sometimes we do like an image thumbnail
which has the play button inside the
thumbnail and you click it and then it
does a pop-up video and that sometimes
works quite well yeah okay
you got your next point sorry i died
yeah yeah yeah you asked about that
you're happy keeping going yeah so do
basically once you've sorted out your
keywords you want to do a technical
review of your site in a content review
so technical yeah looking at page speed
making sure that things like meta titles
meta descriptions what that actually
means in layman terms is when you search
something on google you'll see there's a
headline and you'll see there's a little
paragraph of the text on each listing
and each ranking that's what that is um
looking at things like alt tags which is
the little message that comes up when
you hover over an image um why does that
matter
something that tells a search engine
what the image is about
basically um that's how you describe the
image to
the search engine yeah and then page
titles that literally describe what the
page is
um
so
and there's another thing you need to do
so one mistake that sometimes is made in
seo is that people try and
link all of their keywords so when they
do link building things like that to
their homepage
which isn't the best thing because
ultimately when you're working with
google google wants to give people the
most relevant and helpful response to
their query
so especially if you're searching
something like let's go back to the
accounting example best accounting
software if we're just linking to your
home page it's probably just got a value
proposition about you maybe some social
proof some reviews maybe some ideas of
your services and some call to actions
linking to other pages
whereas if you had a specific article
page or information page that was purely
focused on how to find the best
accounting software that might have
let's say it's got a video it's got a
some information some content it's got
an infographic like an image explaining
the best best points maybe a podcast
that's going to help you a lot more and
give someone the answer to their
questions um so those are a few quick
points on the technical side of things
then you need to do a content audit
which touches on what we just said there
making sure your search terms go to
relevant helpful informative pages
and making sure essentially you've got
the best possible content to match the
search terms that we're going after on
your website so it's all about getting
it technically sound
from
a kind of more complex technical aspect
and also your content because there's no
point doing a bunch of link building
content creation off your website until
your website is sound um as a foundation
do you find people start with seo and
then dive off because we've talked about
it taking 12 18 months and there's a lot
of stuff in there that you've talked
about and that's not an overnight job to
do it to get it to the point at which
you're happy with now and then of course
the world moves so you need more content
next week and the week after and then
you as you upload that content you've
got to think about the
the the technical side of things each
and every time you do that and create
new pages all those sorts of things this
is an ongoing job i'm envisaging people
seeing the end and go i really want to
get there but not having the the
the tolerance the resilience to get
through that process how common is that
yeah yeah yeah it's it's really coming
so i think the
one of the biggest mistakes that
companies might make is not having a
multi-channel approach to marketing yeah
so if you're placing all your eggs in
the seo basket if you are like we say a
big sas or your multinational company
that serves a bunch of countries has to
use competition it's not going to be
quick especially if you're a startup
it's going to take time right because
competitors have been doing it years
ahead of you yeah so you've got to have
a
solid strategy you've got to make sure
you're going after the right search
terms thinking about the different
levels of the buyer journey and then
start doing the things we'll talk about
and we'll get onto offsite in a minute
um yeah so it's not fast so yeah i'd say
adopt a multichannel strategy so you're
not purely sitting there waiting for the
seo leads to come in because you might
be waiting a little while um so yeah
looking at other avenues whether that is
investing in paid ads
outbound calling um email marketing
linkedin marketing whatever wherever
your target audience hangs out don't put
all your eggs in one basket whatever
marketing channel we're talking about so
let we're getting into sales now because
i know that as part of your role you
sell web choices services as well so um
yeah it's it's
it's really nice to to overlap into
sales for a moment um although i think
they're very closely aligned regardless
so how do you sell and what have you
learned from selling these services to
people who aren't going to get a quick
return because we we have that challenge
as well and you get people who get it
and people that don't is it
is it about qualifying people out that
just don't have the right expectations
can you change their expectations i'm
thinking about you know there's a
challenge there for somebody who's going
to buy something and not see any
research on it for 18 months what would
be your tips to people that sell
services like that
solid discovery calls so in my opinion
discovery is the most important part of
the sales process so your first call
after you get a qualified lead with the
customer so like you say not everyone
you speak to is going to be a good fit
for your service so if you if i'm
speaking to marketing uh directors or
managers they're probably quite quite a
good fit not always but they understand
how seo works whereas if i'm talking to
a
small to medium-sized business owner
they may not have as much of experience
which is fine so we've gotta kind of set
expectations right we've gotta talk to
them through kind of
what's
who do you wanna target your business
what kind of um if they're a b2b company
they want inquiries what is an i what
does an ideal lead look like
um what's an average order value what's
your typical sales cycle what are you
doing right now to generate business um
understand whether right now if they're
just doing purely word of mouth perhaps
they're spending a lot of money on ads
perhaps they're frustrated that their ad
spend is so high and their return off
it's slow then seo may be a great fit
long term they can lower their ad spend
and uh increase their brand positioning
with seo so understanding where they're
at now how quickly they want to see
results if they say look i want
something next week or it's not going to
work well i'm afraid seo is probably not
going to be the best fit for you you
probably want to look at some kind of
paid advertising or sponsored ads and
stuff
so really taking the time to understand
where they're at now where they want to
get to why that's important to them and
their goals in terms of kind of web
traffic revenue
inbound leads et cetera and then
determining if it's going to be a
sensible fit or not um
i'm really i'm focusing on this
long-term thing here because i think
it's a really interesting content i
think that's one of the one of the the
common misconceptions around things like
seo and any really any kind of sales and
marketing activity they all take longer
than you think they're going to take and
seo is one of those that probably more
so than anything for the majority of
industries and i think like you said
there's some exceptions if you're local
and you you do something quite nice and
yeah yucky
but i'm guessing that's an exception and
not normal
so if we look at that that long-term
that long-term piece when would a
company
take that um take that take that action
and start the process because like you
said there are companies now they've got
loads of leads coming in they're maybe
their paid channels are working well
maybe their referral network is working
well maybe their outbound strategy is
working well but they know that seo is
on their radar they know they need to do
it at some point but
biting the bullet and taking budget away
from something that's delivering today
for something that's going to deliver in
12 months 18 months feels like a
backwards step to go forwards and i'm
guessing that's quite hard for some
people to do so you know
any learnings there you can give to
people that are really sitting in that i
know i need to do it camp but it's just
a timing thing and all that sort of
stuff yeah let me stir the pot a bit
firstly
um
so there's a ton of b2b sas companies
spending thousands tens of thousands on
webinars yeah um
and i'm not saying webinars are bad in
fact we've done them in the past they've
generated some good leads
um but that wasn't through gated content
so a lot of people are putting out gated
content not always against gated content
can be good if the resource is really
sought after after your target market
and really valuable
but if you're driving thousands and
thousands of um email sign up webinar
leads and then you're telling your sales
team to just start calling then start
coding etc that's going to burn a lot of
their time and they're going to have to
sift for a lot of nonsense before they
get to some gold dust yeah
whereas
yes seo is going to take longer um
it's going to take longer to get those
rankings if you're in competitive space
and and get those inbound opportunities
but
the the ones that come through are going
to be a lot higher quality on the basis
your website clearly showcases what you
do builds that trust is that and to
qualify output fit leads um yeah so the
leads that you do get
will be better um but when when should
you do it i mean
the sooner the better really um
so as an example quick story when
probably about four or five years ago i
started a brand new startup marketing
company with a friend that was just two
of us
there was three things we knew we needed
to do when we started this marketing
company so we were basically like air
marketing
on a smaller scale we did data leads and
kind of outsourced sales
we knew we needed to hit the phones
we knew we needed to
tap up any referral partners partners
because we're brand new we knew we
needed a website
and we knew we needed an seo plan so
what we invested in straight away was a
website so we spent a few grand on the
website and we um invested in seo and we
knew that was going to take probably six
or so months yeah and then for those
first two three months i was just
cold-calling on the phones building up
appointments building up referrals
building up network partners etc started
to get a few leads and then by probably
month three or four then we started
inbound coming in bearing in mind had
pretty much no marketing budget and what
we did want an seo and by that time it
meant we were steadily getting more and
more inbound from seo then we could ramp
some money into paid ads so we could get
a more consistent flow of leads through
google adwords pay-per-click and seo and
then ramp up from there so yeah hands-on
i can say the sooner the better
as long as you take the time to
understand kind of what you want to get
out of the seo plan
you know
i love the way you would stir the pot
and there's two two things that came to
mind as we were talking one is
effectively what you're saying is hire
one one fewer outbound sales person and
put that budget into seo and long term
you get a better result um
i think one of the things i'm learning
is that
even though i talk outbound sales a lot
and you'll talk seo i think we're quite
balanced in our opinions and we
recognize that
not putting all your eggs in one basket
is a sensible business growth strategy
full stop so i hear you on that
as much as i'd like to think you're
staring the pot and i i am i would
challenge you i'm not going to actually
i think you might actually be might be
right there you go i said it um on that
one with the um with the the the second
piece about it i'm really interested to
hear that your first thought when you
started up was to go with seo to then
feed ppc and i'll tell you why when i
started air i did completely opposite i
knew that pcc would deliver me a faster
return would get me profitability in the
bank to go and pay for something like
seo that was a long-term thing so why
did you do it that way round
it's because we'd both been
organizations before as employees where
they
had seo strategies
so we knew that seo could work we just
knew we had to be patient so that's why
i thought i'll hit the phones top of
funnel cold calling generate some
appointments that's going to take me a
while to nurture through yeah and by the
time those are coming to fruition then
probably the seo would kick in which it
did and because we had such a tight
marketing budget we literally spent like
not much at a few hundred quid a month
on seo
which is very very low
and did the content ourselves and then
it just kind of ticked along over time
i love the way you did very very low so
don't phone sam if you want to spend
three hundred months on 300 a month on
seo he can't help you
if you're gonna do it do it properly
right exactly exactly yeah that's it
that's it love it
give us a give us a great example so um
you know give us that give us a bit of a
case study a bit of a chance to show off
of of something you're really proud of
when you've taken a site that maybe
hasn't had any seo to something that's
really really gone and and you know and
and killed it with with page rankings
and performance
yeah i mean not not too bothered about
showing off too much but i mean
i think one thing to consider if you're
gonna employ an seo agency um or company
or freelance or whatever make sure they
can eat their own dog food or they drink
their own champagne so much like
with you guys i mean
some examples of ours so we're if you
search web development company we're
page one organically ahead of about a
hundred thousand web agencies in the uk
um and we've got a bunch of seo terms as
well that kind of organically page one
as well
that took time
because it's massively competitive so a
good kind of year plus and we're still
kind of added adding to it now because
like many industries people are
constantly trying to get above you so
we've got to make sure we're creating
valuable content we're building quality
links
and we're doing all that good stuff
which is what's called offsite have you
ever dropped off have you ever have yeah
yeah one of the recent updates we lost
some of our terms and so they dropped to
kind of page two and page three which is
an issue you'll face when you're in a
really tight space
so um yeah constantly having kind of
increases in fluctuations ramp it up
more content
yeah ramp up content i mean like i say
we don't purely rely on seo whilst to
give you an idea of our business
so we there's three main channels that
generate us inbound inbound leads seo
paid ads and sponsored ads and then
linkedin those are our top three lead
gen sources and that's your organic
linkedin just for the content i put out
um and then there's after that you've
perhaps got referrals word of mouth and
some smaller channels that drive revenue
so
whilst i love seo and it's it's our
number one you've got to have those
backup channels there in case one of
them kicks the pot yeah yeah and you've
got to have some channels you own it's
funny isn't it because it's
it's pretty cut-throat in so much as
you end up on page two let's use that
example end up on page you're up on page
one you end up on page two for something
out of what is it over a hundred
thousand a uh agencies that offer those
services that's something to be pretty
proud of in normal worlds isn't it and
you know normal normal circumstances but
here you are on page two probably never
going to be found is that still the
right attitude that if you're not on
page one you don't exist well there's
that joker and that the best place to
hide a dead body is page two of google
so yeah i mean page one is mark well
market share is the top top organic
result and then the top three after the
top three organic searches which is just
under the paid ads then
it goes down dramatically and
page two you're talking such a low
percent um that you really you really
need to to work together up there and
there's a bunch of ways you can do that
but like we say depending on on the
industry yeah one one thing you want to
consider is if you're if you are a
startup or you are you haven't done seo
before
going for things like best ex provider
best crm provider best accounting
software is going to be massively
competitive right because everyone's
going to want those terms they're buying
searches people are probably going to
request a dummy so thinking about mixing
in some top of funnel searches like how
to find the best x or things to consider
before doing x or
if you get a bit bit nicher like best
accounting software for sales or if
you've got a specific industry you hit
doing that because then there's probably
a little bit less competition you might
be able to rank a bit faster so there
are kind of higher intense search terms
you can go after that might be quicker
hey hundred thousand agencies
what percentage of those are any good at
it because it strikes me that there's a
lot of similarities between that
and things like what we do and
recruitment where it's
i'm gonna say it's low point of entry
you know it's it's fairly easy to call
yourself an expert in something you
don't need a qualification you don't
need to go to to university to like you
would to be a doctor and pass an exam
you just you just do and off you go
you know there can't be a hundred
thousand agencies out there that are
exceptional at it and and i'm guessing
it's
like anything there's a there's a degree
of expertise and an experience that
comes with it but
you just see so many people get baffled
by the the seo journey and not seeing
progress and not really understanding
what their agencies are doing have you
got a sense of you know are there
is it one in ten that are any good what
what does the market really look like
yeah i've got a checklist i'd probably
recommend so if you're thinking about
getting seo freelance or a company in
i i actually wrote a post the other day
on linkedin so i what did i say i said
something like make sure they practice
what they preach so they've actually got
rankings themselves that they can show
you or and examples for customers and
perhaps similar fields
most importantly make sure that you're
aligned on
what is success
so what is success for your business is
it
you just because some big brands just
want to do seo literally as a brand
building and trust building exercise
because if someone consistently sees you
top of google organically then that's
going to build trust over time that
you're a player in your space
um but others might purely want to get
inbound leads
e-commerce companies might want to
purely get sales so what do you want to
get um out of this and are there certain
targets are you six months in we want to
get x amount of leads per month or per
week or we want to generate x amount of
revenue um
so set out what those expectations are
and make sure you're aligned make sure
you're agreed
and yeah then make sure that they take
the time to explain what they're going
to be doing each month and how they're
going to deliver it talk about what the
deliverables are what the work they'll
do on your website how you work together
if you're going to work together on
content or if the agency is just going
to create that for you
in terms of building links in terms of
helping with updating your site so
taking the time really to understand
what's important to the business the
outcomes they want how you're going to
be working together on a monthly basis
what reporting looks like and make sure
it's clear and both sides of the table
are happy with the agreement really and
yeah the process
we've talked about content a lot today
what's more important quality of content
or quantity of content
for seo
yeah quality
um
so
i put again i put some on linkedin
because i i said linkedin i
whilst i bash out a post each day i'm
not too bothered about how i try and
make it actionable so take away tip
but seo is the other end of the scale so
because
in most industries they're so fierce
so
one thing you can do if there's a
certain search term that you want to
rank for then type into google now
see what the top couple organic listings
are doing so they might have an article
they might have information page and
then you need to one-up them so they
might have perhaps
let's say we're looking for i don't know
let's go back to the best accounting
software example so we've typed that in
google we've seen the first two results
they've perhaps got
a bunch of information on on how to how
to find the right vendor perhaps they've
got an image and perhaps they've got
maybe a little video what you can do is
make sure your
your um piece is is more detailed it's
more informative it covers more bases
perhaps you've got a frequently asked
questions section perhaps you've got a
video on it perhaps you've got a podcast
interview specifically on the topic
perhaps you've got a link to a blog post
perhaps you've got an industry statistic
so just looking at gaps where you can
make yours more educational more
entertaining more helpful um and then
that's going to be one one piece of the
puzzle to getting ahead
yeah it's a god of the days where you
used to write your search term over and
over again on the back on the back of
the the web page you know yeah i wish it
was that easy i wish you could just
keyword stuff like um best x or whatever
you want to do on the page and then just
get to the top because it i'd make a lot
more money yeah absolutely you know and
again this is one of those things i
think this is a
criticism of the industry but i think
you can find this across all industries
where
we have a responsibility to explain the
best way of doing things the right way
of doing things and there are
you know your phrase earlier about
cowboys is true but i think even there
are good people out there that just
don't understand that that you need to
help buyers on the journey of genuinely
comprehending the process and genuinely
understanding the the the the ins and
outs of what's going to happen versus
the end result and just promising it and
i think that's a really dangerous game
that unfortunately makes it harder for
for people doing it well and doing it
right um and yeah i think it's a really
seo is one that often stands out for me
as being it's a bit like taking you if
you don't know a car and you take your
car to the mechanic and starts
bamboozling you with all this stuff
about the engine and you just you're too
embarrassed to say you don't know so
you're not alone pretending like you do
and you've just paid a thousand pounds
more than you need to you know it's it's
it's there are a lot of comparables
between those i love the way that you've
brought it to normal language today and
helped us really understand so let's
let's just circle back
and and if there's anything you want to
add that we've missed by all means add
it but if we just take the top
two three four five things that you
would remind everybody that if you're
thinking of seo these are the the the
the points that you should take away
from these conv this conversation you
know talked about or if there's
something we've missed added in what
would they be yeah let's try and give a
quick snapshot so first before you do
any seo make sure you you're in
agreement with your team or your company
that you're going to work with on
what the results you want to what the
outcomes you want are so i.e building
brand website traffic leads revenue etc
make sure you're crystal clear then
understand the services or products you
actually want to get ranked and then do
your keyword research which you can use
tools like semrush ahrefs google keyword
planner
and think about different levels of the
sales funnel and how you can tackle
those
then you need to look at your on-site
seo um so key things like making your
website page speed as quick as possible
use tools like google page bins page
speed insights so thinking about making
your website fast to load
making sure the technical elements meta
tags descriptions
are all on point
um
looking at the content so making sure
the pages on your content actually are
relevant to the search terms the search
terms are going to link to those pages
answer people's questions are helpful
and useful resource
and then off-site seo which we've not
talked about so
typically if we're doing an seo campaign
we want to be putting out content on
other websites not just our own it's
whether that is articles blog posts
press releases infographics animated
videos and so on we want to get them
onto
other
what are called high domain authority
websites and those could be blogging
sites those could be article submission
sites question and answer sites like
quora where we can submit our content
and it's going to be useful helpful
resource and it's going to have a link
back to one of the keywords that we're
targeting or two of the keywords we're
targeting
and that's a big part of the seo puzzle
building links putting out and
distributing content onto relevant
industry websites to build up our own
domain authority build up our backlinks
build up our link juice on google and
over time push up our google organic
rankings so that's something you need a
solid off-site strategy to distribute
content and build links
and it all needs to be measured right so
need to make sure google analytics is
set up on your website we're tracking
all those we're tracking the traffic
we're tracking the traffic sources so if
you do other marketing campaigns maybe
you do paid ads we want to be able to
attribute what was organic what was paid
ads what was linkedin what was social
etc and then we want to measure the
conversions so anytime someone fills
that inquiry form phones you emails you
makes a purchase etc fills out a lead
magnet we want to be able to attribute
those conversions um on the site and
then report it'll understand at the end
of the month what rankings we've
increased the traffic we've got the
results we've achieved etc that's some
of the foundations love that and if if i
look at our our audience um we'll have
people who work in marketing people who
are founders of businesses who own
revenue as a whole clearly they'll care
about this
what would you say to sales people about
seo should they care about it and if so
why
they should care about it if this if the
leads are getting given to them yeah
otherwise then they probably don't i
mean ultimately if i was just a sales
rep in a company and i
had to do a bit of outbound i got a few
leads a week then i'd probably be quite
sound without knowing where they came
from yeah um
unless i guess they're as higher up in
the train if they're perhaps director of
sales or their sales manager then they
might be more questionable till more
yeah i suppose accountable to the lead
sources as you go higher up the chain
what's the sort of um i know this again
the answer will be depends but when we
talk about volume of inquiries coming in
and and increases have you got sort of a
a range or a best case worst case if
we're getting you know 50 inquiries a
month now using
ppc
referral that sort of stuff some social
if i switch on
organic seo and it really starts to go
for it what what sort of volume
increases can i expect as a as a worst
case and a best case
yeah so the good thing is if you do
things like you guys if you do google
adwords already then you can have an
idea for what's working well in the
market and some of the main search terms
you want to tap into um but then again
you can use a tool like semrush which
where you can literally search keywords
and it will tell you how much traffic
those search terms get um so if you are
doing ads already you've got a rough
idea what that's converting at you can
do a calculation
the thing is it's never going to be that
accurate because everyone responds
differently to a website and it's also
on the basis that your website or your
landing page does a great job at
convincing that person and converting
them into an inquiry so there's a lot of
factors you need to take in
um but there are there are some kind of
calculations but as as with most
marketing
it's it can never be nailed down 100
because the buyer journey is so varied
yeah really interested sam thank you
because what what i think i i've learned
lots today and i've taken some really
good takeaways and even even the tools
that you're using and some some valuable
tools that we can bring into our
research around this is this is
something we're looking at i'm sure
there are lots of people out there who
are doing seo and it's not not going as
well as they'd like or not doing it and
considering it so naturally people might
want to drop your line after this and
get in touch how's it sounds like you
hang out on linkedin the most and
certainly we see each other on there is
that the best way to get in touch with
you yeah so by all means connect with me
on linkedin sam dunning i put actionable
tips across websites and seo every day
um otherwise if you want some more free
tips to steal then check out business
growth show we do interviews and i do a
solo episode to again provide tips each
week otherwise if you're perhaps
frustrated that your website isn't
generating a steady flow of inbound
sales or leads
or perhaps you're annoyed because you
can constantly see the competition
higher than you on google when you're
searching for what you do or the product
you offer then get in touch with us it's
webchoiceuk.com
love it love it well i'm sure some
people will be doing that off the back
of the day sam thank you so much it's
really nice to be sat on the other side
listening to you because uh we've talked
so many times and we've always talked
about what we do so it's nice to to get
some insight and you're you're clearly a
guy who knows his stuff and and it's
fantastic to listen to you and to learn
from you so thank you so much for
joining us on the show cheers for me
owen good fun bye